# Running your own infrastructure

## Pre-requisites

* Node/NPM available on the path
* AWS account ID/alias
    * preferrably, you should use a "sub-account" to play with stuff like this
* AWS Access key to run the CDK with
    * Never use the "root account" of an AWS account to do stuff, follow these
      [instructions](create-iam-account.md) for creating an IAM account and
      access key

## Cost 

During development, monthly costs were  2 cents per month (because of many
read and write calls to S3 during the many deployments) - every thing else 
fits easily within the [Always free](https://aws.amazon.com/free) tier.

I haven't done any estimation analysis but I would not be surprised to find the
Zinc app (as-is) could support many hundres of users within the free tier. 
Though you would need to bump the max concurrency of the lambdas.

This would change quickly with a real app though.  Lambda and DynamoDB can get
expensive to run when you use them a lot under constant load.  They only 
become a sensible choice again for high-scale requirements.

My personal choice of cloud architecture for medium scale apps would be a 
container-based backend running on an ASG -> ELB -> EC2 setup backed by an 
RDS database. Swap out the EC2 stuff for an AppRunner setup when it becomes
viable.
The API and security model is designed for a state-free backend approach, so 
the above setup is fairly easy to implement and support.
There'd probably still be a few Lambdas being used for low-volume 
integration/glue purposes (which is their sweet-spot, in my opinion).

## Configure AWS credentials

There's no CI/CD setup, soost people would run this project from a developer 
machine - in which case you'll needed [set up credentials](aws-credentials.md) 
for the `zinc` profile.

## Build the client app
* `cd <repo>/client`
* `npm run build-prd`
  * this will build the client web app suitable for deploying to CloudFront
  * we have to do this first, because the `aws-infra` project needs it to exist
  for the ClientBucketDeploymentStack to work

## Bootstrap the AWS-CDK and do initial deployment
* `cd <repo>/aws-infra`
* `npm run bootstrap`
    * this will create an S3bucket and other resources that aws-cdk uses to
      manage deployments
* `npm run deploy`
    * this will deploy all CDK stacks
    * note that the CloudFrontStack deploys files from dir `<repo>/client/build`
      that are generated by the client build, but since we haven't yet
      built the client, there won't be anthing in there at this point

## Configure Google dev console and Cognito Google credentials
**WARNING**: sections below are out of date now that I've implemented Github and
direct IDP sign-ins, needs to be updated.

* configure credentials and consent screen in Google dev console
    * There are some instructions here: https://aws-cdk.com/cognito-google/ but
      Google change this UI frequently.  The key things you need to set up are:
        * the `Credentials` "Authorized JavaScript origins" and
          "Authorized redirect URIs"
        * the `OAuth consent screen` "Authorized domains"
* configure the Cognito Google pool with the credentials from Google dev console
    * look in "/ Cognito user pool / Sign-in experience /
      Federated identity provider sign-in / Google", though Amazon are also
      prone to changing their UI too

## Configure the SSM parameters that configure the lambda
* go to the AWS SSM parameter store console, there will be various SSM params
  with value "set me in the console"
* copy the values from teh various `Ouputs` sections in the output of the
  `deploy` script (you can safely re-run `deploy` if needed)
```
Outputs:
CognitoEmailStack.CognitoEmailStackCognitoEmailUserPoolClientId = xxx
CognitoEmailStack.CognitoEmailStackCognitoEmailUserPoolId = region_xxx

Outputs:
CognitoGoogleStackV2.CognitoGoogleStackV2CognitoGoogleUserPoolClientId = xxx
CognitoGoogleStackV2.CognitoGoogleStackV2CognitoGoogleUserPoolDomain = domain-name
CognitoGoogleStackV2.CognitoGoogleStackV2CognitoGoogleUserPoolId = region_xxx
CognitoGoogleStackV2.CognitoGoogleStackV2CognitoGoogleUserPoolRegion = region
```

## Deploy the client app
* `cd <repo>/client`
* `npm run build-prd`
    * this will build the client web app suitable for deploying to CloudFront
* `cd <repo>/aws-infra`
* `npm run deploy-cloudfront`
    * this will pick up the generated files from `<repo>/client/build`, upload
      them to the S3 bucket and clear the CloudFront cache

That's it - you should now be able to navigate to the URL for the app and
sign in (look in the CloudFront console under "Distribution domain name",
there's also an "Output" for the CloudFront domain printed by `deploy`).
